README.md, before:

# Benchmarking of reaction representations

## Installation
- Due to the various dependencies of different packages, it is not possible to have a single environment that satisfies them all. In particular, the `rxnfp` package relies on python 3.6. Therefore it is recommended to have a separate environment to run the BERT models, following the install instructions as detailed on the github page https://github.com/rxn4chemistry/rxnfp:
```commandline
conda create -n rxnfp python=3.6 -y
conda activate rxnfp
conda install -c rdkit rdkit=2020.03.3 -y
conda install -c tmap tmap -y
pip install rxnfp
```
- Then another environment can be created that works for the other fingerprints, for example `conda create -n benchmark-rxn`
- `conda install pip`
- Due to the dependencies of the qml python package, numpy needs to be installed first and foremost, therefore a `requirements.txt` file is provided
- Then install requirements like `xargs -L 1 pip install < requirements.txt`

## 2D and 3D fingerprints
- 2D reps here are the DRFP and MFP
- 3D reps are SLATM and $B^2R^2_l$, all in the difference variation for reactions
- To generate/load the reps and perform CV-fold cross-validated predictions with a train fraction of tr, the file `src/run_all_fingerprints.py` should be used
- Here, the datasets are specified as additional arguments, `-c` for Cyclo-23-TS, `-g` for GDB7-22-TS and `-p` for Proparg-21-TS
- For example, for a train fraction of 0.8, with corresponding test and validation of 0.1 each, and 10-fold CV, the command `python src/run_all_fingerprints.py -c -g -p --CV=10 --train=0.8` will generate/load representations and run the models or load the results

## Language models
- A pre-trained BERT model is fine-tuned on the appropriate datasets (cyclo, gdb, or proparg)
- Here, the dataset is provided as an optional argument to `src/train_bert.py`
- To train on and then predict on the cyclo dataset for example, the command is `python src/train_bert.py -t -p --dataset='gdb' --test_size=0.2`
- The optional `--CV` flag determines whether to shuffle the train and predict datasets over the CV iterations
- The prediction MAE of 10 CV iterations are saved to `outs/cyclo_bert_pretrained/results.txt` (and the equivalent for the other datasets)

## Graph based models 
- The CGR model was run using the provided atom mapping, automatic atom mapping from rxnmapper, and random atom mapping 
- The data are in the csv files `data/gdb7-22-ts/ccsdtf12_dz.csv` for GDB7-22-TS,
  `data/cyclo/full_dataset.csv` for Cyclo-23-TS
  and `data/proparg/data.csv` for Proparg-21-TS
- SMILES with the provided ("true") atom mapping are
  in the `rxn_smiles` (Cyclo-23-TS, GDB7-22-TS) or `rxn_smiles_mapped` (Proparg-21-TS) columns of each csv file
- To run rxnmapper, run `src/mapper.py`
- Atom mapped SMILES from rxnmapper are in the `rxn_smiles_rxnmapper` column of each csv file
- Random atom maps are generated using `src/random_mapper.py` and 
  are in the `rxn_smiles_random` column of each csv file
- Python file specifying how each CGR model was run is `src/cgr.py`
- Results of the CGR runs can be found in `results`

Commit message:

hyperopt in progress for RF

README.md, after:

# Benchmarking of reaction representations

## Warning 
This repo is currently in progress, for the revision of the paper. We will remove this warning when the repo is finalised.

## Installation
- Due to the various dependencies of different packages, it is not possible to have a single environment that satisfies them all. In particular, the `rxnfp` package relies on python 3.6. Therefore it is recommended to have a separate environment to run the BERT models, following the install instructions as detailed on the github page https://github.com/rxn4chemistry/rxnfp:
```commandline
conda create -n rxnfp python=3.6 -y
conda activate rxnfp
conda install -c rdkit rdkit=2020.03.3 -y
conda install -c tmap tmap -y
pip install rxnfp
```
- Then another environment can be created that works for the other fingerprints, for example `conda create -n benchmark-rxn`
- `conda install pip`
- Due to the dependencies of the qml python package, numpy needs to be installed first and foremost, therefore a `requirements.txt` file is provided
- Then install requirements like `xargs -L 1 pip install < requirements.txt`

## 2D and 3D fingerprints
- 2D reps here are the DRFP and MFP
- 3D reps are SLATM and $B^2R^2_l$, all in the difference variation for reactions
- To generate/load the reps and perform CV-fold cross-validated predictions with a train fraction of tr, the file `src/run_all_fingerprints.py` should be used
- Here, the datasets are specified as additional arguments, `-c` for Cyclo-23-TS, `-g` for GDB7-22-TS and `-p` for Proparg-21-TS
- For example, for a train fraction of 0.8, with corresponding test and validation of 0.1 each, and 10-fold CV, the command `python src/run_all_fingerprints.py -c -g -p --CV=10 --train=0.8` will generate/load representations and run the models or load the results

## Language models
- A pre-trained BERT model is fine-tuned on the appropriate datasets (cyclo, gdb, or proparg)
- Here, the dataset is provided as an optional argument to `src/train_bert.py`
- To train on and then predict on the cyclo dataset for example, the command is `python src/train_bert.py -t -p --dataset='gdb' --test_size=0.2`
- The optional `--CV` flag determines whether to shuffle the train and predict datasets over the CV iterations
- The prediction MAE of 10 CV iterations are saved to `outs/cyclo_bert_pretrained/results.txt` (and the equivalent for the other datasets)

## Graph based models 
- The CGR model was run using the provided atom mapping, automatic atom mapping from rxnmapper, and random atom mapping 
- The data are in the csv files `data/gdb7-22-ts/ccsdtf12_dz.csv` for GDB7-22-TS,
  `data/cyclo/full_dataset.csv` for Cyclo-23-TS
  and `data/proparg/data.csv` for Proparg-21-TS
- SMILES with the provided ("true") atom mapping are
  in the `rxn_smiles` (Cyclo-23-TS, GDB7-22-TS) or `rxn_smiles_mapped` (Proparg-21-TS) columns of each csv file
- To run rxnmapper, run `src/mapper.py`
- Atom mapped SMILES from rxnmapper are in the `rxn_smiles_rxnmapper` column of each csv file
- Random atom maps are generated using `src/random_mapper.py` and 
  are in the `rxn_smiles_random` column of each csv file
- Python file specifying how each CGR model was run is `src/cgr.py`
- Results of the CGR runs can be found in `results`
